All right guys welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture does not talk really quickly about what are the ways and common techniques that development
firms use to give estimations to their clients and in the very end I'm going to show you an example
of how we do it.
And explain to you why we made that decision and why we think it's the best way to do it.
Are really so there's only three different ways that you can go about doing this when you deliver an
estimate to a client you want to give them as much information as possible.
You want that information to be clear and easy to understand but you also want it to be digestible and
something that doesn't kind of hit them with sticker shock or hit them with what we call our shock.
So with that being said there are different ways of doing it and different reasons for why people pick
the way they do.
So the normal one way and this is probably the most common way you'll see is you get an altogether estimate
now in the previous lecture we had gone over a sample proposal from one of the Digital Studios and I
don't know if you actually noticed that but they did a altogether estimate.
They just said at the very end of their thing $120000 that was it no itemized sections no breakdowns
no nothing.
Now an altogether way of estimating it is a simpler way it's easier it saves you time and it's typically
something that is going to deliver to the client.
If you think the client knows exactly what you're delivering and there's no real discussion about what
exactly you're doing and you and it might be the case that you think the client trust you already so
they just need a top level estimate.
They don't need granularity.
The second second way you could do it is called section by section.
Now the way that you would do this is you would take the estimate of whatever you are proposing to build
and you would break it down into the major sections of it.
So let's say that you were building.
So let's say that you're building an app and the app has a section for our say logging in.
It's a welcome screen.
And then you have a section for messaging other users then you have a section for let's say saving notes.
Now in a section by section estimation I would give an estimate for each individual section.
You know it could be five sections.
It could be 10 sections it could even be two sections of a small application and they would just give
them that price per section.
They can make a choice whether or not to add it or not to drop it.
But it gives them a better idea of what sections are larger What sections are smaller.
Now that's kind of the in between between the other two on this list.
It's kind of the Goldilocks a lot of people use that because it does take a little bit of time to estimate
out every single section but not so much time that you have to estimate every single task and that might
also be something that you think is easier to explain it easier digest a lot of people don't prefer
to get into technical details when it comes to explaining estimates so they like to say section by section
or all together.
Now the final example is called piece by piece and now what you do in this case is you break down literally
as much as you possibly can.
You give estimates for every single task involved.
You'll give subtasks for features and each feature you'll show every task that theoretically would go
into it.
Now piece by piece is something that naturally lends itself to Agile people who run agile teams have
to make estimates up front as to how long each feature is going to take and that's how they determine
what features to build in each batch of work.
Remember Well we called sprints.
So if you're doing agile it's a pretty natural fit.
You have a general idea of how long you think each feature and each task will take now with piece by
piece.
You add in things like how long it takes to upload files to a server how long it takes to even debug
you will add in a ton of granularity.
Really anything you can estimate now the pros and cons of piece by piece avise are pretty obvious a
piece by piece estimate gives your potential client more visibility more transparency than they would
get with the other two.
They know exactly what each section takes.
They know exactly what each feature takes and it tells them some things are larger than other parts
and some parts are smaller than you think.
And it really shows that you know what you're talking about.
Now the downside is obvious.
Now the downside can happen in different ways.
One is it takes more time.
Two is that it opens you up to criticism to your clients.
Now here is a semi-technical client.
They might actually challenge you on individual pieces if you overestimate.
And if you guys have guessed it we actually estimate ours out piece by piece.
Now I'm going to show you an example of what a piece by piece estimate looks like.
And I actually show you a real one that we use.